Vault: document the new field "serviceAccountRef" (#1081)
cert-manager/website: content/docs/configuration/vault.md

          key: token
```

<a id="authenticating-with-kubernetes-service-accounts"></a>

### Authenticating with Kubernetes Service Accounts

The [Vault Kubernetes
Auth](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/auth/kubernetes) allows
cert-manager to authenticate to Vault using a Kubernetes Service Account Token
in order to issue certificates using Vault as a certification authority. The
Kubernetes service account token can be provided in two ways:

- [Secretless Authentication with a Service Account](#secretless-authentication-with-a-service-account) (recommended),
- [Authentication with a Static Service Account Token](#static-service-account-token).

#### Secretless Authentication with a Service Account

ℹ️ This feature is available in cert-manager >= v1.12.0.

> With the secretless authentication with a service account, cert-manager creates
> an ephemeral service account token using the TokenRequest API and uses it to
> authenticates with Vault. These tokens are short-lived (10 minutes) and are
> never stored to disk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the secretless authentication with a service account, cert-manager creates
an ephemeral service account token using the TokenRequest API and uses it to
authenticate with Vault. These tokens are short-lived (10 minutes) and are
never stored to disk.
```

disabled by default on Kubernetes 1.24.

The first step is to create a `ServiceAccount` resource:

```sh
kubectl create serviceaccount -n sandbox vault-issuer
```

Then add an RBAC Role so that cert-manager can get tokens for the
ServiceAccount:

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  name: vault-issuer
  namespace: sandbox
rules:
  - apiGroups: ['']
    resources: ['serviceaccounts/token']
    resourceNames: ['vault-issuer']
    verbs: ['create']
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: vault-issuer
  namespace: sandbox
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: cert-manager
    namespace: cert-manager
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: Role
  name: vault-issuer
```

Finally, create the Issuer resource:

```yaml
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: Issuer
metadata:
  name: vault-issuer
  namespace: sandbox
spec:
  vault:
    path: pki_int/sign/example-dot-com
    server: https://vault.local
    auth:
      kubernetes:
        role: my-app-1
        mountPath: /v1/auth/kubernetes
        serviceAccountRef:
          name: vault-issuer
```

> > **Issuer vs. ClusterIssuer:** With an Issuer resource, you can only refer to a
> > service account located in the same namespace as the Issuer. With a
> > ClusterIssuer, the service account must be located in the namespace that is
> > configured by the flag `--cluster-scoped namespace`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Issuer vs. ClusterIssuer:** With an Issuer resource, you can only refer to a
> service account located in the same namespace as the Issuer. With a
> ClusterIssuer, the service account must be located in the namespace that is
> configured by the flag `--cluster-resource-namespace`.
```

See https://deploy-preview-1081--cert-manager-website.netlify.app/docs/cli/controller/

To create the role in Vault, you can use the following command:

```bash
vault write auth/kubernetes/role/vault-issuer \
    bound_service_account_names=vault-issuer \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=sandbox \
    audience="vault://sandbox/vault-issuer" \
    policies=vault-issuer \
    ttl=1m
```

It is recommended to use a different Vault role each per Issuer or
ClusterIssuer. The `audience` allows you to restrict the Vault role to a single
Issuer or ClusterIssuer. The syntax is the following:

> ```yaml
> "vault://<namespace>/<issuer-name>"   # For an Issuer.
> "vault://<issuer-name>"               # For a ClusterIssuer.
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
"vault://<namespace>/<issuer-name>"   # For an Issuer.
"vault://<cluster-issuer-name>"               # For a ClusterIssuer.
```
```

              key: token
    ```

### Authenticating with a Kubernetes Service Account Without A Secret

The [previous method](#static-service-account-token) of authenticating with
Vault has a major disadvantage: it relies on a less secure "static" token (by

> "static", we mean a token that does not have an expiry time).

Reviewer: Don't start by dismissing the previous method. Why not just put this at the top, as the recommended method, and  start by explaining its advantages.

Author: I move the section at the top. Or rather, I moved it right before the existing service account authentication.

Using the field `serviceAccountRef` instead of `secretRef`, you can let

> cert-manager request ephemeral tokens.

Reviewer: I think you should elaborate more on what it means to "request ephemeral tokens".
For example: https://cert-manager.io/docs/configuration/acme/dns01/azuredns/#managed-identity-using-aad-workload-identity

Author: I added a paragraph on "request ephemeral tokens". Hopefully it makes more sense now.

The first step is to create a `ServiceAccount` resource, like in the `secretRef`

> method:

Reviewer: Don't refer to the secretRef method.

```sh
kubectl create serviceaccount -n sandbox vault-issuer
```

> Then, you will need to add an RBAC Role so that cert-manager can use the service
> account:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then add an RBAC Role so that cert-manager can get tokens for the ServiceAccount:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  name: vault-issuer
  namespace: sandbox
rules:
  - apiGroups: ['']
    resources: ['serviceaccounts/token']
    resourceNames: ['vault-issuer']
    verbs: ['create']
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: vault-issuer
  namespace: sandbox
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: cert-manager
    namespace: cert-manager
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: Role
  name: vault-issuer
```

> Finally, you can create the Issuer resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, create the Issuer resource:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: Issuer
metadata:
  name: vault-issuer
  namespace: sandbox
spec:
  vault:
    path: pki_int/sign/example-dot-com
    server: https://vault.local
    auth:
      kubernetes:
        role: my-app-1
        mountPath: /v1/auth/kubernetes
        serviceAccountRef:
          name: vault-issuer

> ```

Reviewer: Add a note about Issuer vs ClusterIssuer and how Issuer can only refer to a ServiceAccount in the same namespace while ClusterIssuer must refer to a ServiceAccount in the `--cluster-scoped` namespace.

Author: Thanks. I added the following:

> **Issuer vs. ClusterIssuer:** With an Issuer resource, you can only refer to a
> service account located in the same namespace as the Issuer. With a
> ClusterIssuer, the service account must be located in the namespace that is
> configured by the flag `--cluster-resource-namespace`.

To create the role in Vault, you can use the following command:

```bash
vault write auth/kubernetes/role/vault-issuer \
    bound_service_account_names=vault-issuer \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=sandbox \
    audience="vault://sandbox/vault-issuer" \
    policies=vault-issuer \
    ttl=1m
```

It is recommended to use a different Vault role each per Issuer or
ClusterIssuer. The `audience` allows you to restrict the Vault role to a single
Issuer or ClusterIssuer. The syntax is the following:

```yaml
"vault://<namespace>/<issuer-name>"   # For an Issuer.
"vault://<issuer-name>"               # For a ClusterIssuer.
```

The expiration duration for the Kubernetes tokens that are requested is
hard-coded to 10 minutes (that's the minimum accepted). The `ttl` field can be
as short as possible, since cert-manager requests a new token every time it
needs to talks to Vault.

Although it is not recommended, you can also use the same Vault role for all of
your Issuers and ClusterIssuers by omitting the `audience` field and re-using

> the same service account.

Author: Hmm. I wonder if most people would go with this instead of bothering with `"vault://<namespace>/<issuer-name>"`.
